---
title: Development as a Hobby
author: 'Tim King'
publishedAt: '2023-07-31T01:53:27.380Z'
tags: ['general']
---

So what does hobbyist tinkerer mean? Or development as a hobby?

<!--more-->

This article is intended for folks who intend to approach development (or learning how to) with a small portion of their time - similar to what you'd be able to get from other hobbies. Likewise, the focus is not always to turn it into a side-gig.

I like to think of it as solving puzzles - almost like a big book of suduko or crosswords. But instead, I am even more ill-equipped and the books are even bigger! But really - I just like building things. It's a creative outlet being able to take an idea forward. The struggle that goes along with that can be really satisfying. And, I like to share what's built and the challenges with others.

I am super fortunate to have a career that allows me to have time for hobbies. And, as with other hobbies, I'm not so sure if development was my career I would also do it as a hobby. It's rare that I can commit regular time to a hobby as well. I may go months without being able to dive back in to code.

Keeping up with all the changes to technology (especially in front-end dev) can be tricky, but here are some ways that I use to try to help. I like to think of it along the lines of Tim Ferris's "Minimum Effective Dose" - what's the minimum we can do to try to stay up-to-date.

1. Note Taking

    Keeping track of ideas, topics to research, framework updates to check into, etc can be challenging. I leverage my safari reading list and notes app quite a bit to rank items.

1. Github Mobile

    Starring favorite repos and checking in every so often can help with seeing enhancements made. You can subscribe to discussions or issues as well.

1. Social

    Many frameworks, their authors, dev rel folks, etc have feeds. As an example, you can [checkout who I follow](https://elk.zone/mas.town/@timmyking/following). These allow you to get bite-sized updates. I also really like [LearnVue](https://learnvue.co/) and the [LearnVue YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/learnvue)

1. Interest

    I hope this comes across in a humble way - but development as a hobby comes with being able to choose what you work on. You're your own client/product manager. But - you do need to build the things that make you happy - because that is what a generative hobby is all about. In learning, they talk about the goldilocks principle. Take on a project that is just difficult enough keep interested, but not so easy that it becomes boring.

1. Exercise

    You might not be able to get a long uninterrupted coding block in every day. In your notes, try to pick out some small items/enhancements. It might be just updating some dependencies to see if anything breaks. Or - writing a small test. Further - it might not even be coding. It could be a new budget spreadsheet or notion table relation - anything that helps exercise problem solving.

1. Teach / Relate
    
    There are lots of opportunities to share what you know and that can also be fulfilling. It could be someone in your life who has a knack for technology, a kid/niece/nephew with interest, or even a community group. Sharing your hobby with others in a generative way can provide similar and even better satisfaction than seeing your own projects come to life.

Over time - I intend to write more about hobbies, but would love to  connect with people find tinkering/development rewarding - please hit the [contact](/contact) page.